[RFC] release cycle (#52)
coq/ceps: text/052-platform-release-cycle.md

- Title: Coq and Coq platform release cycle

- Drivers: Enrico

----

# Summary

We aim at a release process for Coq and the Coq platform which makes it
easier for users to provide feedback and for developers to deliver fixes.

In a nutshell the Coq "beta period" is replaced by a Coq platform "beta period".

> Coq devs tag a almost final version on top of which the Coq platform core is

Reviewer: an almost

built. Coq point release are then used as a *quick* mean to deliver fixes
to the platform.

# Motivation

The beta testing period does not provide enough feedback to sensibly improve
Coq between the `VX+beta1` and `VX.0` tags. The reasons are, most important
last:
- users have better things to do, frankly
- one month is short, especially with Christmas/summer holydays around
- in order to test Coq you are likely to need a bunch of Coq packages, and they
  are typically only available after the beta period is over

Moreover the "beta period" is also seen by devs as a time frame where they can
still change many things. As a results users are even less happy to spend time

> working on a moving target.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is true anymore, IMHO I think that most of us really see the beta as a version almost set in stone, but indeed this has been becoming like this gradually.

Reviewer 2: Indeed, and this fact is not so clear to users, as some recent discussions about what the beta means have shown.

Finally, due to the cost of backporting breaking changes from the master
branch to the release branch, during 8.12 and 8.13 release cycle this only
happened very early, just after branching (only 2 in the beta period for 8.12,
0 for 8.13).

> 

Reviewer: I'm not sure why this is noted here.

## New actor: platform

> The Coq platform is a selection of Coq package versions which work well

Reviewer: which -> that ?

Reviewer: You could also write just "Coq packages" and to avoid the redundancy with the versions in the next line.

of Coq with the release of other packages. It provides scripts that build
that selection of Coq packages on Windows, Mac and Linux from sources
on the user's machine, and as well binary installers (prebuilt) for users
to quickly get a working environment.

This product is what users will test in this new model; Coq is a core
component of it.

# Detailed design

The new process' timeline:
```
                     D             D            D   D  D
coq      --+---(1)---+------(2)----+-----(3)----+---+--+----
 vX branch/          |             |            |
            X+rc tag/              |            |
                           X.0 tag/             |
                                        X.1 tag/

                                   I                    I
platform  -----------+----(4)------+--------(5)---------+
           vX branch/              |                    |
                        X+beta tag/                     |
                                                X.0 tag/
Artifacts:
- D = docker image for Coq (and opam package)
- I = binary installers for Coq platform (and opam packages and docker image)
```

## Coq

On time based schedule the RM branches vX.

> 1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready and pins projects tracked by   CI. Then he tags. This should take 10 days. No packages are built, just a git

Reviewer: he -> they tag

Author: thanks

Reviewer: Also it should be "The RM shepherd" [IMHO it is better to assume everyone is they so we don't have to pick a gender.

> 1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready and pins projects tracked by   CI. Then he tags. This should take 10 days. No packages are built, just a git

Reviewer 2: This could take even less than 10 days (10 days should be an upper bound) if the RM is strict on PR inclusion after the cutoff date.

> tag. A docker image is build, to that upstreams can use them in CI. No breaking change is allowed from now on.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tag. A docker image is build, so that project maintainers can use them in CI. No breaking change is allowed from now on.
```

> tag. A docker image is build, to that upstreams can use them in CI. No breaking change is allowed from now on.

Reviewer 2: About the "no breaking change allowed", there should be an explicit exception for regression and inconsistency fixes, no?

2. Doc is updated (eg. Changes file) and eventual fixes required by the platform
are done. Ideally no other change is done. This should take 10 days.

> 3. In response to a severe bug report Coq devs make an hotfix and the RM tags a point release. Once the fix is produced, a tag comes in 2 days.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't the commitment be with respect to the moment the fix is merged in `master`?

## Platform

When Coq X+rc is tagged, the PRM branches vX

> 4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's CI so there should be no surprises, otherwise issues are reported to Coq devs. When done a X+rc tag is done and packages made available to users. A docker image with the entire platform prebuilt should be built. This should take 20 days.

Reviewer 2: To be consistent with how you called it in your timeline:

```suggestion
4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's CI so there should be no surprises, otherwise issues are reported to Coq devs. When done a X+beta tag is done and packages made available to users. A docker image with the entire platform prebuilt should be built. This should take 20 days.
```

> 4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's CI so there should be no surprises, otherwise issues are reported to Coq devs. When done a X+rc tag is done and packages made available to users. A docker image with the entire platform prebuilt should be built. This should take 20 days.

Reviewer 3: It might make sense to bind the packages to a release branch of the package during the beta phase, rather than to a commit. At the end of the beta phase, this branch is tagged then. Both approaches have their advantages and disadvantages. Using branches is likely more agile and less work for the platform maintainers since changes in the release branches of the packages are immediately visible. The downside is that platform CI does not run automatically on changes, so during the beta phase one would need at least one build a day to find breaking changes. Also with commits the platform maintainers would have more control. I think it depends on the discipline of the package maintainers what works better. My guess is that we will use branches where it works well and fall back to commits for specific projects where things go wild.

Reviewer 2: > It might make sense to bind the packages to a release branch of the package during the beta phase, rather than to a commit.

Yes, but for most non-plugin projects there are no release branches (releases are created from `master`). So my conclusion is the same as yours.

> 5. As users pick up the platforms and find severe bugs in Coq, the platform picks up point releases of Coq containing hotfixes and eventually extends packages beyond the core set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. As users pick up the platform and find severe bugs in Coq, the platform picks up point releases of Coq containing hotfixes and eventually extends packages beyond the core set.
```

3. In response to a severe bug report Coq devs make an hotfix in master which is
   backported to vX by the RM which then tags a point release, possibly as soon
   as the fix is available and merged.

## Platform

When Coq X+rc is tagged, the PRM branches vX

4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the
   platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are
   notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's
   CI so there should be no surprises, otherwise issues are reported to Coq
   devs. When done a X+beta tag is done and packages made available to users.
   A docker image with the entire platform prebuilt should be built. This
   should take 20 days.
5. As users pick up the platform and find severe bugs in Coq, the platform picks
   up point releases of Coq containing hotfixes and eventually extends packages
   beyond the core set.

## Synchronization points

- The end of (1) starts the release cycle of the platform.
- The end of (2) and (4) don't need to be done at the same time, but if they
  are then the new release cycle coincides with the old one (up to the

>   renaming of X.0 into X+beta).

Reviewer 4: Hi all, I've just read the CEP once and after this first reading, it seems the least clear passage is this item.
In particular, I believe one could precise:
* that even if (2) (coq vX.0) and (4) (platform vX+beta) need not to be done at the same time, maybe there should anyway be a constraint such as time(4) ≥ time(2) ?
* and rephrase or elaborate on this sentence: "the new release cycle coincides with the old one (up to the renaming of X.0 into X+beta)" which does not seem clear to me… (w.r.t. "the old one" and "up to the renaming")

to quickly get a working environment.

**The platform is the final product users will get** in this new model;
Coq is a core component of it.

# Detailed design

The new process' timeline:
```
                     DO+           O                         O   O  O
coq      --+---(1)---+------(2)----+----------(3)------------+---+--+----
 vX branch/          |             |                         |
           VX+rc tag/              |                         |
                          VX.0 tag/                          |
                                                    VX.1 tag/
   
                                  DI                   DI      DI
platform  -----------+----(4)------+--------(5)---------+-------+-------
           vX branch/              |                    |       |
                      VX.0+beta tag/                    |       |
                                              VX.0.0 tag/    .../
Artifacts:
- D = docker image for Coq (or Coq + the platform)
- O = OPAM package (O+ means for core-dev, otherwise it is for the main OPAM repo)
- I = binary installers for Coq platform
```

## Coq

On time based schedule the RM branches vX.

> 1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready and pins projects tracked by CI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready, ensures blocker issues are fixed and pins projects tracked by CI
```

   (using commit hashes, not necessarily tags).
   This step should take no more than 2 weeks.

>    - The RM **tags** VX+rc, but produces no binary installers, see the platform release.

Reviewer 2: Use `VX+rc1` and same for the platform beta tag unless somehow the process ensures that there won't be a second rc whatever the situation (and the critical bugs preventing tagging of Coq libraries which are reported).

Author: will do, thanks

>    - The RM writes an **OPAM package**, currently the policy is to upload it to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The RM writes or request help from opam users to write an **OPAM package**, currently the policy is to upload it to
```

BTW, I probably said that already, but opam is never branded in all caps in the official channels.

     `core-dev`.

>    - Possibly, the RM builds a docker image, so that project maintainers can use it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Possibly, the RM builds or request help to build a docker image, so that project maintainers can use it
```

     in CI during (4).
   
   **No breaking change is allowed from now on, unless a severe problem is found.**

> 2. The documentation is updated (eg. the Changes file) and eventual fixes

Reviewer 2: Point 1 should probably explicitly contain a point about minimally updating the changes.rst file by running the automatic consolidation script (leaving it to the .0 release to write the release summary).

Author: done.

   required by the platform are done. Ideally no other change is done.
   This step should take no more than 2 weeks.
   - The RM **tags** the .0 release.

>    - The RM writes an **OPAM package** for the main OPAM repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The RM writes or request help from opam users to write an **OPAM package** for the main OPAM repository.
```

3. In response to a severe bug report Coq devs make an hotfix in master which is
   backported to vX.
   - The RM **tags** the point release, possibly as soon
    as the fix is available and merged.

>    - The RM writes an **OPAM package** for the main OPAM repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - The RM writes or request help from opam users to write an **OPAM package** for the main OPAM repository.
```

## Platform

When Coq VX+rc is tagged, the PRM branches vX

4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the
   platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are
   notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's
   CI or the Platform's CI so there should be no surprises.
   This step should not take more than one month.
   - The PRM **tags** VX.0+beta tag and publishes the **binary installers**
   - The PRM may also provide a **docker image** with the entire platform prebuilt
5. As users pick up the platform and find severe bugs in Coq, the platform picks
   up point releases of Coq containing hotfixes and eventually extends packages
   beyond the core set.

### Platform versioning

It is out of the scope of this CEP to chose a versioning schema for the
platform. In the diagram above we append a .digit to the Coq version (one

> of the current proposals).

Reviewer 4: nitpick: this disclaimer looks very OK, but I have one question: assuming "we append a .digit to the Coq version", maybe the bottom rhs tag in the diagram above should be `VX.1.0` instead of `VX.0.0`?

Author: That's a technical eye! Kind of fixed.

## Synchronization points

- The end of (1) starts the release cycle of the platform.
- The end of (2) and (4) don't need to be done at the same time, but if they
  are then the release cycle presented in this CEP roughly coincides with the
  previous one. Normally (2) precedes (4), but if the doc is not ready yet
  the platform can still release a beta.
- Coq's VX.0 tag can be made as soon as the doc is clear. This will stress the

>   fact that upstreams can pin with no worries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  fact that upstreams can pin with no worries as soon as the rc is tagged.
```

## Announces

- Coq tags are only announced to devs
- Coq platform pins are communicated to upstream devs, which may tag/release.
- Coq platform tags and packages **are announced to the community** (this is
  when we party)

## Coq's CI

- must test **one configuration**: it cannot use one compiler version or
  compiler flavor to test one project, and a different one to test another one,

>   since the platform can only have one

Reviewer 2: This point is unclear and not actionable as is. It seems to be in contradiction with the flexibility left in the last two points below on not testing all platform pure Coq libraries and testing non-standard flavors. It indeed seems to be a good idea that CI tests several configurations (including edge versions of dependencies) so that problems are detected sooner rather than later.
Let's identify current (actual) issues in the Coq CI and fix them (for instance the point below relates to an actual issue).

Author: I could rephrase it is a more operational way.

For each project P included in the platform:
- if P has ML code, then it must be tested in Coq's CI using the platform configuration. It can also be tested using something else, but not exclusively using another configuration
- if P is pure .v code:
  - if it is a core component (has many users in the platform) the it must be tested in Coq's CI using the platform compiler. It can also be tested using something else, but not exclusively using a non platform compiler.
  - if it is not a core component, then it can be tested with any configuration in Coq's CI, or not tested at all
  - it must be tested by the platform's CI

A configuration is a version/flavor of the OCaml compiler and a set of configure options for Coq/env variables.

The decision of which is the platform configuration and the switch to a new one is subject to discussion between Coq and platform devs, and the switch should happen in a coordinated way.

W.r.t. the problems with Coq's CI, I think (hope) the only one left is about the configuration. IIRC many jobs disable native but I could not reproduce any failure using a standard 4.07.1 compiler on the same gitlab workers. So something tells me we tweak the configuration (I did not investigate yet).

Author: Is this text more clear? Should I write it this way in the CEP?

Reviewer 2: Yes, much clearer. Yes, please update the CEP to be more like what you wrote in this comment.

Author: done

of Coq with the release of other packages. It provides scripts that build
that selection of Coq packages on Windows, Mac and Linux from sources
on the user's machine, and as well binary installers (prebuilt) for users
to quickly get a working environment.

**The platform is the final product users will get** in this new model;
Coq is a core component of it.

# Detailed design

The new process' timeline:
```
                     DO+           O                         O   O  O
coq      --+---(1)---+------(2)----+----------(3)------------+---+--+----
 vX branch/          |             |                         |
          VX+rc1 tag/              |                         |
                          VX.0 tag/                          |
                                                    VX.1 tag/
   
                                  DI                   DI      DI
platform  -----------+----(4)------+--------(5)---------+-------+-------
           vX branch/              |                    |       |
                      VX.0+beta tag/                    |       |
                                              VX.0.0 tag/    .../
Artifacts:

> - D = docker image for Coq (or Coq + the platform)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- D = Docker image for Coq (or Coq + the platform)
```

- O = OPAM package (O+ means for core-dev, otherwise it is for the main OPAM repo)
- I = binary installers for Coq platform
```

## Coq

On time based schedule the RM branches vX.

1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready, ensures blocker issues are fixed
   and pins projects tracked by CI (using commit hashes, not necessarily tags).
   The RM generates the Changelog file via the `generate-release-changelog.sh`
   script, but leaves the release notes empty (it's the project leader which
   fill them in before the .0 release).
   This step should take no more than 2 weeks.
   - The RM **tags** VX+rc1, but produces no binary installers, see the platform release.
   - The RM ensures an **OPAM package** is available, currently the policy is to upload it to
     `core-dev`.

>    - Possibly, the RM builds a docker image, so that project maintainers can use it

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   - Subsequently, the RM ensures a **Docker image** is available, so that project maintainers can use it
```

     in CI during (4).
   
   **No breaking change is allowed from now on, unless a severe problem is found.**
2. The documentation is updated (eg. the Changes file) and eventual fixes
   required by the platform are done. Ideally no other change is done.
   This step should take no more than 2 weeks.
   - The RM **tags** the .0 release.
   - The RM ensures an **OPAM package** is uploaded to the main OPAM repository.
3. In response to a severe bug report Coq devs make an hotfix in master which is
   backported to vX.
   - The RM **tags** the point release, possibly as soon
    as the fix is available and merged.
   - The RM ensures an **OPAM package** is uploaded to the main OPAM repository.

## Platform

When Coq VX+rc1 is tagged, the PRM branches vX

4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the
   platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are
   notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's
   CI or the Platform's CI so there should be no surprises.
   This step should not take more than one month.
   - The PRM **tags** VX.0+beta tag and publishes the **binary installers**

>    - The PRM may also provide a **docker image** with the entire platform prebuilt

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   - The PRM also ensures a **Docker image** is available with the entire platform prebuilt
```

  or a PC with windows).
- on branch **master** it should take Coq master and its **upstream tracked branches**
  (for the subset of projects part of the platform) and eventually report the
  failures upstream. Currently this activity is logged in dedicated issues.

### Terminology
- "severe bug" is a bug which *blocks* many users with no decent workaround,
  or a soundness bug.
- "hotfix" is a minimal patch that repairs a problem, not necessarily the nice
  solution which may require refactoring or cleanups. The patch should pass CI
  with no overlay and must be reviewable (in a strict sense, as in looking for
  bugs, not just as in "looks reasonable")
- "RM" is the release manager of Coq
- "PRM" are the release managers of the Coq platform
- "standard configuration" is a version of ocaml and other tools which are
  agreed between Coq devs and the platform devs (dune, make, gmp, gtk...) as
  well as a set of configure options or env variables for Coq (eg enabling or
  disabling native_compute, tuning OCaml's GC, tweaking the stack size)

# Drawbacks

This new process identifies 3 groups of developers which need to talk to each

> others: Coq dev, platform devs, and docker devs. This is a risk, but also an

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
others: Coq dev, platform devs, and Docker devs. This is a risk, but also an
```

  **upstream tracked branches**
  (for the subset of projects part of the platform) and eventually report the
  failures upstream. Currently this activity is logged in dedicated issues.

### Terminology
- "severe bug" is a bug which *blocks* many users with no decent workaround,
  or a soundness bug.
- "hotfix" is a minimal patch that repairs a problem, not necessarily the nice
  solution which may require refactoring or cleanups. The patch should pass CI
  with no overlay and must be reviewable (in a strict sense, as in looking for
  bugs, not just as in "looks reasonable")
- "RM" is the release manager of Coq
- "PRM" are the release managers of the Coq platform
- "standard configuration" is a version of ocaml and other tools which are
  agreed between Coq devs and the platform devs (dune, make, gmp, gtk...) as
  well as a set of configure options or env variables for Coq (eg enabling or
  disabling native_compute, tuning OCaml's GC, tweaking the stack size)

### Notes about platform versioning

It's essentially the Ubuntu scheme:
- YYYY.MM plays the role of a major version, as in Coq's 8.13
- YYYY.MM.0,  YYYY.MM.1 ... play the role of point releases, as Coq's 8.13.0 ..

> Hence, it is not YYYY.MM.DD byt rather YYYY.MM.XX.

Author: ```suggestion
Hence, it is not YYYY.MM.DD but rather YYYY.MM.XX.
```

- Title: Coq and Coq platform release cycle

- Driver: Enrico

----

# Summary

We aim at a release process for Coq and the Coq platform which makes it
easier for users to provide feedback and for developers to deliver fixes.

In a nutshell the *Coq "beta period"* is replaced by a **Coq platform "beta period"**.
Coq devs tag an almost final version on top of which the Coq platform core is

> built. Coq point release are then used to quickly deliver fixes

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
built. Coq point releases are then used to quickly deliver fixes
```

to the platform.

# Motivation

The beta testing period does not provide enough feedback to sensibly improve
Coq between the `VX+beta1` and `VX.0` tags. The reasons are, most important
last:
- users have better things to do, frankly

> - one month is short, especially with Christmas, summer holydays or conferences

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- one month is short, especially with Christmas, summer holidays or conferences
```

  around (our beta period is December or May)
- in order to test Coq you are likely to need a bunch of Coq packages, and they
  are typically only available after the beta period is over

Moreover the "beta period" has also been seen by devs as a time frame where

> they can still change many things. As a results users are even less happy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
they can still change many things. As a result, users are even less happy
```

**The platform is the final product users will get** in this new model;
Coq is a core component of it.

# Detailed design

The new process' timeline:
```
                     DO+           O                         O      O     O
coq      --+---(1)---+------(2)----+----------(3)------------+------+-----+-----
 vX branch/          |             |                         |
          VX+rc1 tag/              |                         |
                          VX.0 tag/                          |
                                                    VX.1 tag/
   
                                  DI                   DI              DI
platform  -----------+----(4)------+--------(5)---------+---------------+-------
      YYYY.MM branch/              |                    |               |
                   YYYY.MM+beta tag/                    |               |
                                          YYYY.MM.0 tag/   YYYY.MM.1 tag/
Artifacts:
- D = Docker image for Coq (or Coq + the platform)
- O = OPAM package (O+ means for core-dev, otherwise it is for the main OPAM repo)
- I = binary installers for Coq platform
```

## Coq

On time based schedule the RM branches vX.

> 1. The RM shepherds the few PR which are ready, ensures blocker issues are fixed

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. The RM shepherds the few PRs which are ready, ensures blocker issues are fixed
```

   and pins projects tracked by CI (using commit hashes, not necessarily tags).
   The RM generates the Changelog file via the `generate-release-changelog.sh`

>    script, but leaves the release notes empty (it's the project leader which
>    fill them in before the .0 release).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   script, but leaves the release notes empty (it's the project leader who
   fills them in before the .0 release).
```

   - The RM **tags** the .0 release.
   - The RM ensures an **OPAM package** is uploaded to the main OPAM repository.
3. In response to a severe bug report Coq devs make an hotfix in master which is
   backported to vX.
   - The RM **tags** the point release, possibly as soon
    as the fix is available and merged.
   - The RM ensures an **OPAM package** is uploaded to the main OPAM repository.

## Platform

When Coq VX+rc1 is tagged, the PRM branches YYYY.MM off

4. Starting with the pins made by RM on Coq's CI all packages part of the
   platform (or its core) are pinned (in accordance with upstreams, which are
   notified about the ongoing process). Most, if not all, packages are in Coq's
   CI or the Platform's CI so there should be no surprises.
   This step should not take more than one month.
   - The PRM **tags** YY.MM+beta tag and publishes the **binary installers**
   - The PRM also ensures a **Docker image** is available with the entire platform prebuilt
5. As users pick up the platform and find severe bugs in Coq, the platform picks
   up point releases of Coq containing hotfixes and eventually extends packages
   beyond the core set.

> ### Platform versioning
> 
> It is out of the scope of this CEP to chose a versioning schema for the
> platform. In the diagram above we append a .digit to the Coq version (one
> of the current proposals).

Reviewer 2: This is outdated. It can probably be simply removed:
```suggestion
```

## Synchronization points

- The end of (1) starts the release cycle of the platform.
- The end of (2) and (4) don't need to be done at the same time, but if they
  are then the release cycle presented in this CEP roughly coincides with the
  previous one. Normally (2) precedes (4), but if the doc is not ready yet
  the platform can still release a beta.
- Coq's VX.0 tag can be made as soon as the doc is clear. This will stress the
  fact that upstreams can pin with no worries as soon as the rc is tagged.

## Announces

- Coq tags are only announced to devs
- Coq platform pins are communicated to upstream devs, which may tag/release.
- Coq platform tags and packages **are announced to the community** (this is
  when we party)

## Coq's CI

For each project P included in the platform:

- if P has ML code, then it must be tested using the **standard configuration**.
  It can also be tested using another configuration.
- if P is pure .v code we have two cases

>   - if it is a core platform component (has many users in the platform) the it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - if it is a core platform component (has many users in the platform) then it
```

    must be tested using the standard configuration. It can also be tested using
    another configuration.
  - if it is not a core component, then it can be tested with any configuration,
    or not tested at all (it must be tested by the platform's CI anyway)

The decision of which is the "standard configuration" and the switch to a new
one is subject to discussion between the Coq developers and the platform ones,
and the switch should happen in a coordinated way.

Moreover, Coq's CI must test:
- a **selection of platform scripts**, to test the script themselves,
  not the build of platform packages. Currently the `-extent=i` platform flag
  makes it build only Coq+CoqIDE, that should be sufficient.

Coq's CI can test anything else of course, including non standard

> configurations and projects that are no in the platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configurations and projects that are not in the platform.
```
